Lab 1 Worksheet

1. What if 12 bits were used to store a signed integer. What is the biggest/smallest possible integer?

	Minimum Possible Integer: -(2**(11))
	Maximum Possible Integer: (2**11) - 1

2. Think about possible values and their range, say what type of variable would be suitable for the following, and suggest a name for it too. 

For example: the temperature of a room in degrees Fahrenheit. Room temperature is likely to vary between say 50 degrees F and 100 degrees F,  but it can take any value in between including non-integers, e.g 71.19 F, so the type must be float or double depending on the accuracy required. A suitable variable name would be roomTemp. 


(i) The number of pages in a book; 

	Book pages are discrete numbers, and Oxford English dictionary(a very long book) has a length of 15,490 pages. Since a short can contain integers up to 32,000, a 'short' will suffice. 
	variable: bookPage

(ii) The number of atoms in a book; 

	Atoms are measured discretely and in large quantities. A 'long' will suffice.
	variable: bookAtom

(iii) The length of a side of a triangle in inches; 

	Triangles may be measured continuously, but if the measurement in is inches not nanometers(or smaller), we don't need exceptional granularity. A 'float' will suffice.
	variable: triangleLength

(iv) Your name; 

	My name is spelled in characters, and thus should be written as a 'String' composed of 'char'.
	variable: myName	


(v) Whether or not a nucleus has decayed;

	Decay is measured binarly, should be boolean.	
	variable: decay

(vi) The probability that it could have decayed. 

	Probability is measured continuously with minimal granularity(typically two decimal places) and thus should be recorded as a 'float'.
	variable: decayProb

3. Start to do a little java programming! 
	Follow the example of the Hello.java program and do some testing of Java int and float.
	Write a short class called “Arithmetic” that in its main method does the following:

		Creates 4 local variables
			Two ints (call them a and b)
			Two floats (call them x and y)
		Performs the following arithmetic operations on every combination of two of these 
		and output using System.out.println each of the results
			Addition
			Division (in both directions)



